In this demonstration,
we're going to deploy an EC2 instance and use user data to configure it.
And we're going to connect to the EC2 instance and display its metadata.
For this demonstration, we're going to be working with the AWS console,
and to follow along, you'll need an AWS account.
Now a caution here, when you deploy EC2 instances to your AWS account,
you may incur charges.
So if you do follow along with this demonstration,
make sure you delete resources when they're no longer needed.
Any resources you create and then leave in your AWS account will cost you money.
So I'm in the AWS console, specifically, the EC2 dashboard.
If I select Instances, we can see that I've already got four running instances.
But let's launch another by saying Launch instances.
I'm going to choose a Windows AMI type and just
leave t2.micro as the instance type.
Then I'm going to select Configure Instance Details.
We've got the general configuration of instance.
If I then scroll down under Advanced Details of the
metadata and User data section.
So we can see here metadata is enabled,
and we can see it's going to deploy version 1 and version 2 of the metadata.
You can use drop‑downs here to make changes.
So we can disable metadata, and we can enforce just version 2.
Then we've got the User data section.
And it's in here you've got you Bash script or your PowerShell script.
We can type in the text,
or we can upload a file and specify whether that file is already base64 encoded.
So this being a Windows machine,
there's my PowerShell command that I want to be run
when this machine is launched, my user data.
So if I click Review and Launch here, we can review our settings,
then click Launch.
We'll be asked for a key pair and then say Launch Instance.
So that instance will take a few minutes to launch.
Once it's launched, we can connect to it.
I've rtp‑ed into the launch instance.
I've opened a web browser.
And I've accessed the 169.254.169.254 IP address.
This same IP address is available on Linux instances.
You can see the API version numbers there.
If I type in latest, we then get access to user data and metadata.
So if I type metadata, we can see the instance metadata.
And if I type public‑ipv4, we can see the instance's public IP address.
Let's take a look at user data.
So the same IP address latest/user‑data.
And here we can see the user data that was hopefully used
to configure this machine at launch.
Back in the EC2 dashboard, if I select my new launch web server,
then from Actions and Instance settings,
we can select Edit user data.
Here we can see that I'm not able to edit user data at the
minute because my instance is running.
But if I shut down the instance, we could edit the user data.
Now a little note of caution here.
If I were to shut the machine down and edit user data,
it does not mean that that user data will be executed.
In fact,
it won't be executed unless you change some settings inside the virtual machine.
So let's go back to the virtual machine,
and here you can see I've opened EC2 Service Properties.
And note it's the User Data tick box.
We have to tick this box if we want user data to be
applied each time the service starts, so each reboot for example.
If you don't select this, the user data might be changed,
but it'll have no effect.
So I'll select OK here.
If I select WebServer1 and then go to its public IP address,
we can see that it's got a website deployed.
Let's shut down WebServer1.
Once stopped, let's select the web server and go to Actions,
Instance settings, and Edit user data.
And now we can modify our user data.
So let's make a little change.
So instead of Install‑WindowsFeature, we're now saying uninstall‑WindowsFeature.
If I save that change, and let's start that instance again.
And once WebServer1 is fully started and finished initializing,
we should find that the new user data has taken effect,
and now our example would have removed the IIS so the
website will no longer be available.
So with WebServer1 selected,
we can use this public IP list again to try and access its website.
This time we receive an error because the user data has uninstalled IIS.
Don't forget if you want your user data to apply each time the system reboots,
you must change your EC2 properties from inside the
instance, regardless of whether it's a Linux machine or a
Windows machine. In this module,
you learned how to use user data to configure an EC2 instance at launch.
We also showed you how you can edit user data and use that to
reconfigure an EC2 machine as long as the EC2 service properties
have been configured appropriately. Our demonstration
concentrated on a single EC2 machine.
But there's nothing stopping you scaling this up and editing the
user data en masse for a large group of machines.
We also discussed EC2 metadata in this module. And metadata is a
powerful component that could expose all sorts of EC2 settings to
applications and services running on the EC2 instance. In our next
module, we're going to discuss CloudWatch logs,
alarms, and metrics.
We're going to view some CloudTrail logs inside CloudWatch. And
we're going to learn more about querying log data.
So join me there, and we'll continue along our Monitoring and Event
Response on AWS for DevOps Engineers journey. Thank you.